# San Fransico Transportation Group Assignment  
This is the group repository for the SF Transportation group project in UP 221.
## Introduction
The project looks at San Francisco public high schools and accessibility to those high schools via San Francisco Municipal Railway (“Muni”) through buses and light rail. San Francisco has a unique situation where families are able to rank and choose to attend almost any public high school within the district. 
## Explanation
San Francisco’s open enrollment policy allows families residing anywhere in the city to select the public high school that best suits their needs. However, being able to attend is more than simply admission. Students have to be able to physically get to the schools themselves. Students may attend school via a variety of methods such as driving to school, public transportation or walking. However, students who do not have access to a vehicle likely rely on public transportation and walking. If those students do not live close to the school they wish to attend, the only resort is to use public transportation. If those schools are not served by public transportation, then the policy of picking any school would fail to serve everyone. This is especially important in considering upward mobility. Children who attend better schools tend to be better off in the long term. Ideally it would be great if schools are all but that’s unrealistic and allowing students to go to better schools would generate long term improvements. 
## Description
San Francisco is the spatial scope used for this study. San Francisco is unique in government structure with both the City and County lines being the same. This allows for observation of buses because there is only one bus organization that operates unlike Los Angeles where there are so many different municipalities with many having their own bus lines. Another factor is San Francisco’s policy of allowing students to choose any high school they wish to attend. In most cases, students attend high schools close to them and are only allowed to other schools if they get accepted via open enrollment or score high enough on their exams and get into special programs. However, with almost all schools available for attendance, it provides an insight into how available those schools are. 
Another consideration is using the demographic of the school and the demographic of the region to determine where students are coming from. In most normal circumstances, the school's demographics would be roughly proportional to the neighboring area. However, by allowing any resident to attend almost any school, students from different parts of the city would be commuting to different high schools. This would be reflected in the demographic shifts between the school and the area. Some students will access schools by public transportation. This will be determined by looking at schools within the board of supervisor districts and the demographics within those districts. 
## Data Source
In order to analyze school demographics in San Francisco, data from the California Department of Education provide on demographics by high schools. To determine the access by public transportation, Muni stops will be used to determine where bus stops are located. Included in this study will be a map of all public schools and how close those stops are to public high schools. 
## Scope
The visual analysis will start by mapping out all the bus stops in San Francisco. Afterward, the map will demonstrate where public high schools and the bus stops that are close to these high schools. Finally, a comparison of demographic data between each high school and the district demographics nearby. 
## Conclusion
From an early observation, there seems to be some mismatch in the demographics between the demographics of the school and the demographics of the neighboring region. How much of that is due to access to public transportation and public transportation’s ability to reach some schools is to be determined. 
